crates/blinc_recorder/README.md, before:

# blinc_recorder

Recording and debugging infrastructure for Blinc applications.

## Overview

`blinc_recorder` provides tools for recording user interactions, capturing UI state, and enabling visual regression testing.

## Features

- **Event Recording**: Capture user interactions (clicks, keys, etc.)
- **Tree Snapshots**: Capture UI element tree state
- **Session Management**: Start/pause/stop recording lifecycle
- **Replay**: Play back recorded sessions
- **Visual Testing**: Screenshot comparison for regression testing
- **Debug Server**: Live inspection of running applications

## Recording Sessions

```rust
use blinc_recorder::{SharedRecordingSession, RecordingConfig};

// Create a recording session
let session = SharedRecordingSession::new(RecordingConfig {
    capture_events: true,
    capture_snapshots: true,
    snapshot_interval: Duration::from_millis(100),
    ..Default::default()
});

// Start recording
session.start();

// ... application runs ...

// Stop and get recorded data
session.stop();
let events = session.events();
let snapshots = session.snapshots();
```

## Event Types

```rust
use blinc_recorder::RecordedEvent;

// Recorded events include:
RecordedEvent::MouseMove { x, y, timestamp }
RecordedEvent::MouseDown { x, y, button, timestamp }
RecordedEvent::MouseUp { x, y, button, timestamp }
RecordedEvent::Click { x, y, button, timestamp }
RecordedEvent::KeyDown { key, modifiers, timestamp }
RecordedEvent::KeyUp { key, modifiers, timestamp }
RecordedEvent::Scroll { x, y, delta_x, delta_y, timestamp }
RecordedEvent::TextInput { text, timestamp }
```

## Tree Snapshots

```rust
use blinc_recorder::TreeSnapshot;

// Snapshots capture the UI element tree
let snapshot: TreeSnapshot = session.latest_snapshot();

// Access element data
for element in snapshot.elements() {
    println!("Element: {} at ({}, {})",
        element.type_name,
        element.bounds.x,
        element.bounds.y
    );
}
```

## Replay

```rust
use blinc_recorder::ReplayPlayer;

// Load recorded session
let session = SharedRecordingSession::load("recording.json")?;

// Create replay player
let player = ReplayPlayer::new(session);

// Play back events
player.play();

// Or step through manually
player.step();
```

## Visual Testing

```rust
use blinc_recorder::{TestRunner, ScreenshotExporter};

// Capture screenshot
let frame = app.render(&ui);
ScreenshotExporter::save_png(&frame, "screenshot.png")?;

// Compare with baseline
let runner = TestRunner::new("tests/visual");
runner.compare("test_name", &frame)?;
```

## Debug Server

```rust
use blinc_recorder::DebugServer;

// Start debug server for live inspection
let server = DebugServer::start(8080)?;

// Connect via browser at http://localhost:8080
// View live element tree, events, and snapshots
```

## Optional Features

- `png` - Enable PNG screenshot export

## Architecture

```
blinc_recorder
├── session.rs        # Recording session management
├── events.rs         # Event types and recording
├── snapshot.rs       # Tree snapshot capture
├── replay/           # Replay infrastructure
├── testing/          # Visual testing utilities
└── server.rs         # Debug server
```

## License

MIT OR Apache-2.0

Commit message:

chore: prepare crates for publishing v0.1.1
- Bump workspace version to 0.1.1
- Add Blinc framework notice to all crate READMEs
- Add proper metadata (keywords, categories, description) to Cargo.toml files
- Standardize workspace inheritance for version, edition, license, repository

crates/blinc_recorder/README.md, after:

# blinc_recorder

> **Part of the [Blinc UI Framework](https://project-blinc.github.io/Blinc)**
>
> This crate is a component of Blinc, a GPU-accelerated UI framework for Rust.
> For full documentation and guides, visit the [Blinc documentation](https://project-blinc.github.io/Blinc).

Recording and debugging infrastructure for Blinc applications.

## Overview

`blinc_recorder` provides tools for recording user interactions, capturing UI state, and enabling visual regression testing.

## Features

- **Event Recording**: Capture user interactions (clicks, keys, etc.)
- **Tree Snapshots**: Capture UI element tree state
- **Session Management**: Start/pause/stop recording lifecycle
- **Replay**: Play back recorded sessions
- **Visual Testing**: Screenshot comparison for regression testing
- **Debug Server**: Live inspection of running applications

## Recording Sessions

```rust
use blinc_recorder::{SharedRecordingSession, RecordingConfig};

// Create a recording session
let session = SharedRecordingSession::new(RecordingConfig {
    capture_events: true,
    capture_snapshots: true,
    snapshot_interval: Duration::from_millis(100),
    ..Default::default()
});

// Start recording
session.start();

// ... application runs ...

// Stop and get recorded data
session.stop();
let events = session.events();
let snapshots = session.snapshots();
```

## Event Types

```rust
use blinc_recorder::RecordedEvent;

// Recorded events include:
RecordedEvent::MouseMove { x, y, timestamp }
RecordedEvent::MouseDown { x, y, button, timestamp }
RecordedEvent::MouseUp { x, y, button, timestamp }
RecordedEvent::Click { x, y, button, timestamp }
RecordedEvent::KeyDown { key, modifiers, timestamp }
RecordedEvent::KeyUp { key, modifiers, timestamp }
RecordedEvent::Scroll { x, y, delta_x, delta_y, timestamp }
RecordedEvent::TextInput { text, timestamp }
```

## Tree Snapshots

```rust
use blinc_recorder::TreeSnapshot;

// Snapshots capture the UI element tree
let snapshot: TreeSnapshot = session.latest_snapshot();

// Access element data
for element in snapshot.elements() {
    println!("Element: {} at ({}, {})",
        element.type_name,
        element.bounds.x,
        element.bounds.y
    );
}
```

## Replay

```rust
use blinc_recorder::ReplayPlayer;

// Load recorded session
let session = SharedRecordingSession::load("recording.json")?;

// Create replay player
let player = ReplayPlayer::new(session);

// Play back events
player.play();

// Or step through manually
player.step();
```

## Visual Testing

```rust
use blinc_recorder::{TestRunner, ScreenshotExporter};

// Capture screenshot
let frame = app.render(&ui);
ScreenshotExporter::save_png(&frame, "screenshot.png")?;

// Compare with baseline
let runner = TestRunner::new("tests/visual");
runner.compare("test_name", &frame)?;
```

## Debug Server

```rust
use blinc_recorder::DebugServer;

// Start debug server for live inspection
let server = DebugServer::start(8080)?;

// Connect via browser at http://localhost:8080
// View live element tree, events, and snapshots
```

## Optional Features

- `png` - Enable PNG screenshot export

## Architecture

```
blinc_recorder
├── session.rs        # Recording session management
├── events.rs         # Event types and recording
├── snapshot.rs       # Tree snapshot capture
├── replay/           # Replay infrastructure
├── testing/          # Visual testing utilities
└── server.rs         # Debug server
```

## License

MIT OR Apache-2.0
